CCSC Vice Presidential checklist
--------------------------------

1.  In-cooperation agreements

We have 10 conferences a year.  Five in the fall, and five in the spring.
In order to use ACM and SIGCSE logos to promote our conferences, ACM
asks us to fill out an "in-cooperation" agreement form.  A separate form
needs to be completed for each conference, so the procedure tends to
become repetitive and routine.

The in-cooperation forms should be submitted about 4 months in advance.
So, ideally the fall conference forms should be submitted in April/May,
and the spring conferences should be done in November/December.

One minor wrinkle is that if a fall conference is scheduled on or after
November 8, then the in-cooperation agreement cannot be completed so
far in advance.  This is because of the dating of our insurance policy.
CCSC has an annual insurance policy that renews each year on 11/8.
And we are not billed for it until September.  As a result, if there
are any fall conferences held on or after 11/8, you would not be able
to complete the in-cooperation until September.  The Treasurer
(currently Brian Hare) should send you the latest proof-of-insurance.

Before filling out the in-cooperation agreement forms, you need to
look up information about each conference to enter onto the form.
Regarding the expected revenue and expenses of each conference,
you can use the previous year's estimate as a starting point, and perhaps
massage the figures based on the actual attendance figures and number 
of papers presented that should appear in the most recent Board minutes.

2.  Board meetings

The CCSC Board has 2 in-person meetings each year.  The fall meeting
is held on the Thursday evening immediately before one of the fall
conferences.  (The region rotates from year to year.)  The spring meeting
is held the evening before the first day of the annual SIGCSE conference.

    a.  About 3 weeks before the meeting, send an e-mail message to
        the entire board, requesting their reports.  Regional reps
        need to send you a report on their region.  Officers such
        as the treasurer, membership secretary, and publication chair,
        also submit reports.  All you need to do is insert these
        reports into the minutes of the meeting.
    
    b.  A few days before the Board meeting, the President should send
        you the meeting agenda.  You can insert the regional and officer
        reports into the agenda.
        
        As VP, you also have a report to insert into the agenda.
        Basically, this itemizes all of the VP work that you have
        done since the last Board meeting, including the results
        of all of the motions the Board considered via e-mail.

    c.  At the meeting, take notes on what is discussed.  You can even
        attempt a rough draft of the minutes during the meeting live
        by editing the agenda/minutes document that the President shares
        with you.
    
    d.  The final version of the minutes should be submitted to the
        board for approval within a month after the meeting.
        
    e.  The spring board meeting is followed soon after by the general 
        business meeting during SIGCSE.  This is a short meeting, 
        consisting mainly of announcements to the entire membership.  
        You also need to take minutes of this meeting.  It gets approved 
        at the same time as the minutes of the board meeting.

    f.  All of your travel expenses are reimbursed by CCSC.  Send your
        reimbursement form and receipts to the Treasurer.

3.  Summer elections

We have some board elections every year.  Consult the (online) list of 
Board members to see whose terms are expiring.  A nominating committee 
should be formed during the fall board meeting.  You as the VP are the chair 
of the nominating committee.  Beginning in January or so, contact 
incumbents to see if they are interested in re-election.  If not, solicit 
new people to run for those offices.  Consult with regional boards, 
for example.  You should have your slate of candidates ready by the
spring board meeting.

The election takes place online during a 30-day period in May/June.
We use a vendor called votingplace.net.  You will have login credentials
to administer the election.  You also need to pay for the election,
and then immediately get reimbursed by the Treasurer.

4.  Board motions

At any time during the year, a board member may introduce a motion
for the entire board to debate.  Discussion and voting on these
motions is done via e-mail.  The way to communicate to the rest of
the board is to send e-mail to:  ccsc_board@gaggle.email.

All motions except those coming from a committee need a second.
The President will announce a 3-day discussion period, followed by
a 2-day voting period.  They are business days, not including weekends.
For example, if a motion is announced and seconded on Monday, the
President may decide that the discussion period would be Tuesday through
Thursday, with voting taking place on Friday and the following Monday.
People vote by sending e-mail directly to you.  

You should maintain a spreadsheet to keep track of all the motions,
one page per motion.  You need to record what the motion is, who 
made the motion and on what date, who seconded and on what date,
and the dates of voting.  Finally, you need to record the votes
for each Board member.  The day after voting is over, announce the
result to the board via e-mail.  I recommend also including a screenshot
of your spreadsheet page so that all of the details of the motion
can be seen.

On the first day of voting, encourage all Board members to vote,
and instruct them to send their votes straight to you.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Chronological order of important Vice Presidential tasks.

January
  Begin discussions with the nominating committee
  regarding who is going to run for election/re-election.
  Ask incumbents if they want to serve another term.

February
  Late in the month, remind Board members to submit reports to you.

March
  A few days before the Board meeting, the President should send
  you the meeting agenda.  You can insert the regional and officer
  reports into the agenda.  As chair of the nominating committee,
  you would also insert a little report showing the names of
  the proposed candidates for this year's elections.
  
  Attend the board and business meeting that is held in conjunction
  with SIGCSE.

April
  Submit the minutes of the spring board meeting and the general
  business meeting to the Board for approval.

May
  Submit in-cooperation agreements to ACM for our fall conferences.

  Conduct online elections.

June
  When election period is over, announce winners.

September
  Ask the Treasurer to send you the latest copy of our
  Proof of Insurance.  This is needed for the in-cooperation agreements.

  If there is a fall conference scheduled on or after 11/8,
  submit its in-cooperation agreement to ACM.

  In the middle of the month, ask Board members to submit their
  reports to you.  

October/November
  A few days before the Board meeting, the President should send
  you the meeting agenda.  You can insert the regional and officer
  reports into the agenda.

  Attend the Board meeting held in conjunction with a regional
  CCSC conference.

November
  Submit the minutes of the fall board meeting for approval.

November/December
  Submit in-cooperation agreements to ACM for our spring conferences.

Anytime
  Check your e-mail periodically for motions and votes on motions.
